entries/191124.md, before:

# A retrospective on six weeks of self-training

## Overview

Some time back in September, I realized that I was coming out of a fairly long down cycle brought on at least in part by a combination of one miserable job and one deeply disillusioning one. A review of my github profile suggests that I go through a similar downturn roughly in the middle of each year, but this one was particularly long and deep. Technical learning not required for my day-to-day job more or less dried up completely in mid-May and the desire to get my head back in the game didn't come back until around the time I received the first e-mail announcing Code Camp 2019.

In preparation for Code Camp, I logged into Pluralsight to graze over some of the topics that would be covered at the one-day event. This must have triggered something because there's been no looking back. In the six weeks since, I've been on the site every day and, not entirely coincidentally, I've gotten back into the habit of using github for all sorts of things other than just code (but code, too.)

Now, I think I'm ready to start building a proper side project and a survey of what's caught my interest seems like a good place to decide what to build.

## Completed Courses

I completed approximately 55 courses over the last six weeks and have a handful that are mostly done that I intend to return to. A rough count by (overlapping) subject:

### 10 courses
* Azure
* Containers & Docker

### 9 courses
* Automation and Continuous Deployment

### 8 courses
* DevOps

### 7 courses
* Testing

### 6 courses
* C#

### 5 courses
* Databases
* Linux

### 4 courses
* Serverless Functions
* Python

### 3 courses
* Angular
* Networking
* NoSQL

### 2 courses
* Agile
* Asynchronous Programming
* C++
* Dotnet Core
* Design Patterns
* F#
* Graph Databases
* Machine Learning
* Node.js
* Postman
* RavenDB

### 1 course
* Akka.net
* ASP.net core
* Amazon Web Services
* Asynchronous Programming
* Azure Functions
* Computer Science
* Consul
* CSS
* Cypress.io
* D3
* Debugging
* ELK Stack
* Go
* Google Cloud Functions+
* Google Cloud Platform
* Identity Management
* Infrastructure as Code
* Kubernetes
* Microservices
* Moq
* Observability and Monitoring
* Postfix
* Project Management
* Redis
* Rust
* Shell Programming
* TypeScript
* Vagrant
* Vim
* Web Scraping
* Windows

I feel like quantifying these things can give insight into my own skills and interests, but there aren't a lot of surprises here. Six of the top eight subjects are directly related to my day-to-day job - seven if you count the fact that our integrated project management system is Azure DevOps and a fair number of the Azure courses tend to overlap with that product.

There are a few recurring topics that wouldn't technically be my job except that I keep bringing them in to try to make my team's life easier: We've beem hitting a brick wall trying to get any kind of cloud assets, but after a year of that, the bricks feel like they're crumbling a bit. I just recently volunteered myself to drag one of our projects into continuous deployment before the end of the year. And I bring up containers pretty much every chance I get.

A lot of this is because I've seen how much a process can improve with containers and the cloud compared to snowflake VMs all hosted on-premise. Similarly, DevOps isn't my job, but I keep pushing the idea that DevOps should be every developer's job and no one has told me to knock it off yet. Similarly, getting dev and testing to work together smoothly is one of my favorite stalking horses.

As for things that are purely my own interest, serverless functions and microservices are probably a bridge too far for 2020 at work, but they're definitely at the forefront of my mind when I think about side projects. We also probably won't be bringing in any new languages this year, but I always want to be learning at least one because... well, honestly because I enjoy it, but it's also supposed to be good for me as a coder.

After reading an article about SAFE stack, I took a dive at F# and I definitely have a better grasp of it now than I did after my last dive, but it feels like a subject that needs to be taken in small doses and digested over time, so I've set F# aside for now.

Commit message:

The magic of containers/code-server

entries/191124.md, after:

# A retrospective on six weeks of self-training

## Overview

Some time back in September, I realized that I was coming out of a fairly long down cycle brought on at least in part by a combination of one miserable job and one deeply disillusioning one. A review of my github profile suggests that I go through a similar downturn roughly in the middle of each year, but this one was particularly long and deep. Technical learning not required for my day-to-day job more or less dried up completely in mid-May and the desire to get my head back in the game didn't come back until around the time I received the first e-mail announcing Code Camp 2019.

In preparation for Code Camp, I logged into Pluralsight to graze over some of the topics that would be covered at the one-day event. This must have triggered something because there's been no looking back. In the six weeks since, I've been on the site every day and, not entirely coincidentally, I've gotten back into the habit of using github for all sorts of things other than just code (but code, too.)

Now, I think I'm ready to start building a proper side project and a survey of what's caught my interest seems like a good place to decide what to build.

## Completed Courses

I completed approximately 55 courses over the last six weeks and have a handful that are mostly done that I intend to return to. A rough count by (overlapping) subject:

### 10 courses
* Azure
* Containers & Docker

### 9 courses
* Automation and Continuous Deployment

### 8 courses
* DevOps

### 7 courses
* Testing

### 6 courses
* C#

### 5 courses
* Databases
* Linux

### 4 courses
* Serverless Functions
* Python

### 3 courses
* Angular
* Networking
* NoSQL

### 2 courses
* Agile
* Asynchronous Programming
* C++
* Dotnet Core
* Design Patterns
* F#
* Graph Databases
* Machine Learning
* Node.js
* Postman
* RavenDB

### 1 course
* Akka.net
* ASP.net core
* Amazon Web Services
* Asynchronous Programming
* Azure Functions
* Computer Science
* Consul
* CSS
* Cypress.io
* D3
* Debugging
* ELK Stack
* Go
* Google Cloud Functions+
* Google Cloud Platform
* Identity Management
* Infrastructure as Code
* Kubernetes
* Microservices
* Moq
* Observability and Monitoring
* Postfix
* Project Management
* Redis
* Rust
* Shell Programming
* TypeScript
* Vagrant
* Vim
* Web Scraping
* Windows

I feel like quantifying these things can give insight into my own skills and interests, but there aren't a lot of surprises here. Six of the top eight subjects are directly related to my day-to-day job - seven if you count the fact that our integrated project management system is Azure DevOps and a fair number of the Azure courses tend to overlap with that product.

There are a few recurring topics that wouldn't technically be my job except that I keep bringing them in to try to make my team's life easier: We've beem hitting a brick wall trying to get any kind of cloud assets, but after a year of that, the bricks feel like they're crumbling a bit. I just recently volunteered myself to drag one of our projects into continuous deployment before the end of the year. And I bring up containers pretty much every chance I get.

A lot of this is because I've seen how much a process can improve with containers and the cloud compared to snowflake VMs all hosted on-premise. Similarly, DevOps isn't my job, but I keep pushing the idea that DevOps should be every developer's job and no one has told me to knock it off yet. Similarly, getting dev and testing to work together smoothly is one of my favorite stalking horses.

As for things that are purely my own interest, serverless functions and microservices are probably a bridge too far for 2020 at work, but they're definitely at the forefront of my mind when I think about side projects. We also probably won't be bringing in any new languages this year, but I always want to be learning at least one because... well, honestly because I enjoy it, but it's also supposed to be good for me as a coder.

After reading an article about SAFE stack, I took a dive at F# and I definitely have a better grasp of it now than I did after my last dive, but it feels like a subject that needs to be taken in small doses and digested over time, so I've set F# aside for now. At different times in my career, I've known both C++ and Python well enough to use them to write production code and, if I were focused on future employability, I'd probably give them more attention, but I'm taking a gamble that this job has some legs and instead inclined to take the time to learn a couple of fascinating, new-ish languages: Rust and Go.

I'd already learned bits of Rust when I thought I might have to write my own Linux service to do what is now effectively taken care of by VS Code's code-server. Coding in a decent UI on a Windows machine while hosting and executing the code on a remote Linux machine has long been a goal of mine. Cloud9 came pretty close and VSCode online is pretty close to what I want, but some combination of code-server and development containers may be the really magical combination.
