# Journal for Nov 21, 2019

## Morning Learning

This morning, I tried to watch the rest of my video about Azure Active Directory. Either because of the subject or my own distraction, not much stuck. I'm pretty sure this isn't the IAM solution for Beta-my-Book, though.

## Workday

My primary focus today is on figuring out the details of bringing one of our products into continuous delivery. That means meetings, e-mail, Slack messages, and not a lot of code. My QA partner pointed out a couple of crucial details in how we're thinking about pipelining this process. I also followed up with a candidate for the DevOps engineer role. Sometimes, for all of my efforts to not become a manager, I wind up doing a lot of managerial... things.

As a way of facilitating flexibility on our team, I've been looking at running [code-server](https://github.com/cdr/code-server) locally. After trying the docker one-liner, the Dockerfile, and the compiled binary, my initial sense was that it's insufficiently documented for public use. Pre-setup steps aren't mentioned. Nor are necessary parameters to those scripts.

My second thought is that, since this is a project that, by definition, exposes your server to run _the most_ arbitrary of arbitrary code and needs to be secured properly before being exposed to the outside world, maybe it has an much documentation as its target audience requires.

This is significant because I'm considering issuing a PR against the repo to create a default to one of the Dockerfile args and possibly pull it from an ENV, but the lack of this feature may be a deliberate design choice.

## Links

* [Docker ARG, ENV and .env - a Complete Guide](https://vsupalov.com/docker-arg-env-variable-guide/)
* [code-server](https://github.com/cdr/code-server)
