# Journal for November 30, 2019

## Overview

The last few days have been a hodgepodge of new technology. I decided to work on Pilgrim, the FaaS/Microservice cluster for identity and access management and that led down the rabbit hole to looking at cloud databases to figure out which one might be a good first data store. I started learning about CosmosDB, which seemed like a good choice becuase it's cloud native and has an "all things to all people" vibe to it, but it turns out that just having an empty CosmosDB collection waiting to be used costs ~US$25 a month.

Next, I tried to set up a good old fashioned single managed instance of SQL server on Azure like I use for the gallery project, but for the life of me can't figure out how to replicate the existing setup where I pay approximately US$3-5 a month for DB usage. Everything I tried to set up ran from US$60-900 a month. I'll have to loop back to it.

In between videos about AZP deployment pipelines, I dabbled with WebAssembly, first playing with WAT, which is a weird combination of Assembly-level commands and LISP structures, then diving into creating WASM assemblies in Rust. Surprisingly, I really like WAT (which is going to be impractical for most projects,) but find that targeting WASM in rust on Windows is a non-starter because, while there's a chocolately package for Rust, it doesn't include rustup and the rustup installer for Windows doesn't work out of the box.

I started playing with build containers to compile the Rust code, but I either need to switch to a more complete version of Linux or figure out all of the fiddly bits in Alpine.

## Links

* [WebAssembly in Rust on O'Reilley Learning](https://learning.oreilly.com/library/view/programming-webassembly-with/9781680506846/f_0030.xhtml#)
