# A retrospective on six weeks of self-training

## Overview

Some time back in September, I realized that I was coming out of a fairly long down cycle brought on at least in part by a combination of one miserable job and one deeply disillusioning one. A review of my github profile suggests that I go through a similar downturn roughly in the middle of each year, but this one was particularly long and deep. Technical learning not required for my day-to-day job more or less dried up completely in mid-May and the desire to get my head back in the game didn't come back until around the time I received the first e-mail announcing Code Camp 2019.

In preparation for Code Camp, I logged into Pluralsight to graze over some of the topics that would be covered at the one-day event. This must have triggered something because there's been no looking back. In the six weeks since, I've been on the site every day and, not entirely coincidentally, I've gotten back into the habit of using github for all sorts of things other than just code (but code, too.)

Now, I think I'm ready to start building a proper side project and a survey of what's caught my interest seems like a good place to decide what to build.

## Completed Courses

I completed approximately 55 courses over the last six weeks and have a handful that are mostly done that I intend to return to. A rough count by (overlapping) subject:

### 10 courses
* Azure
* Containers & Docker

### 9 courses
* Automation and Continuous Deployment

### 8 courses
* DevOps

### 7 courses
* Testing

### 6 courses
* C#

### 5 courses
* Databases
* Linux

### 4 courses
* Serverless Functions
* Python

### 3 courses
* Angular
* Networking
* NoSQL

### 2 courses
* Agile
* Asynchronous Programming
* C++
* Dotnet Core
* Design Patterns
* F#
* Graph Databases
* Machine Learning
* Node.js
* Postman
* RavenDB

### 1 course
* Akka.net
* ASP.net core
* Amazon Web Services
* Asynchronous Programming
* Azure Functions
* Computer Science
* Consul
* CSS
* Cypress.io
* D3
* Debugging
* ELK Stack
* Go
* Google Cloud Functions+
* Google Cloud Platform
* Identity Management
* Infrastructure as Code
* Kubernetes
* Microservices
* Moq
* Observability and Monitoring
* Postfix
* Project Management
* Redis
* Rust
* Shell Programming
* TypeScript
* Vagrant
* Vim
* Web Scraping
* Windows

I feel like quantifying these things can give insight into my own skills and interests, but there aren't a lot of surprises here. Six of the top eight subjects are directly related to my day-to-day job - seven if you count the fact that our integrated project management system is Azure DevOps and a fair number of the Azure courses tend to overlap with that product.

There are a few recurring topics that wouldn't technically be my job except that I keep bringing them in to try to make my team's life easier: We've beem hitting a brick wall trying to get any kind of cloud assets, but after a year of that, the bricks feel like they're crumbling a bit. I just recently volunteered myself to drag one of our projects into continuous deployment before the end of the year. And I bring up containers pretty much every chance I get.

A lot of this is because I've seen how much a process can improve with containers and the cloud compared to snowflake VMs all hosted on-premise. Similarly, DevOps isn't my job, but I keep pushing the idea that DevOps should be every developer's job and no one has told me to knock it off yet. Similarly, getting dev and testing to work together smoothly is one of my favorite stalking horses.

As for things that are purely my own interest, serverless functions and microservices are probably a bridge too far for 2020 at work, but they're definitely at the forefront of my mind when I think about side projects. We also probably won't be bringing in any new languages this year, but I always want to be learning at least one because... well, honestly because I enjoy it, but it's also supposed to be good for me as a coder.

After reading an article about SAFE stack, I took a dive at F# and I definitely have a better grasp of it now than I did after my last dive, but it feels like a subject that needs to be taken in small doses and digested over time, so I've set F# aside for now. At different times in my career, I've known both C++ and Python well enough to use them to write production code and, if I were focused on future employability, I'd probably give them more attention, but I'm taking a gamble that this job has some legs and instead inclined to take the time to learn a couple of fascinating, new-ish languages: Rust and Go.

I'd already learned bits of Rust when I thought I might have to write my own Linux service to do what is now effectively taken care of by VS Code's code-server. Coding in a decent UI on a Windows machine while hosting and executing the code on a remote Linux machine has long been a goal of mine. Cloud9 came pretty close and VSCode online is pretty close to what I want, but some combination of code-server and development containers may be the really magical combination.

One subject I've gotten fairly elbow-deep in is hugo, the static site generator written in go. It's not listed above because both Pluralsight and O'Reilley Learning have zero material on it yet. I'm also really excited about Cypress.io, but there's only one lackluster conference video on the subject. I hope to go deeper on hugo in the coming months and a pipeline component for it might be just the right size for my first real go project.

In general, while I want to learn new languages, I'd prefer to use them for the first time in a domain where everything else is familiar. For most of the projects I have in mind, I want to try to build around serverless functions and static front-ends. The latter would probably be written in Angular - not because I love it, but because we use it at work and I'm not particularly drawn to any of the alternatives. Already climbing at least two steep learning curves, I'd just as soon do the actual coding in C# and JavaScript/TypeScript.

## Projects I've Already Dug Into

There are three projects I've already put some legwork into and not entirely rejected, but they all have concerns around them. They are:

### Personal Website

It's been a few years since I put up a portfolio website for myself. It would be a static website, probably generated in hugo, and be unlikely to take more than 100 hours for the initial creation and deployment. As a downside, I don't have much to put in a profile website. The work that I've done for hire is just much more of a selling point than any project I have in github. If I decide to take this as a primary project, I really need to timebox it. More likely, I'll try to finish at least one "cool" project and then come back to it.

Also, if I get back into dev blogging, I'm more likely to give dev.to a try than to go my own way.

### DraftNinja

DraftNinja is a perennial possibility and has ranged in scope from a desktop tool that can update relative values of draft choices in fantasy baseball in real-time as players are taken off the board to a full ML system that can look at years of box scores and come up with better predictive models than those that are commercially available. They all flounder on the fact that none of the solutions have a value proposition worth the work I would have to put into them. I just don't care about fantasy baseball as much a I used to. I don't know that I want to put in the effort to create a system I'd be comfortable putting serious money into. And I don't feel like I need a showcase piece so badly than I should spend months building one that doesn't bring me joy. Plus, I'm pretty sure the state of ML is a big enough moving target that whatever I learn building it will be immediately obsolete.

### Beta-My-Book

This was the front-runner for a while: a site where authors can share unfinished material with their beta readers, get feedback, and make edits in real-time. I still really like the idea, but the primary motivation of building the site was to use it myself and, as it turns out, there's already a site that offers these services. Equipped as I am with training in DevOps and Continuous Deployment, the idea of building a competitor to an existing site on my own is no longer a deal-breaker, but the motivation to build it is much less if I can get the service from an existing site.

## Intriguing Aspects

Whatever project I dig into, I expect continuous build and integrated testing to be involved from the get-go. If one or more of the outputs is a website or API, I plan to use continuous deployment as well. I'll probably manage the build pipeline using Azure DevOps because it's something I'm both familiar with and need to learn more of to do my day job well.

As I mentioned above, if it's appropriate, I expect to use a microservice architecture and serverless functions with a static front end written in Angular. This is enough unfamiliar ground that I'd prefer to keep the language choices as familiar as possible - at least initially.

## Possible Projects

### Authentication as a Microservice Cluster
Any non-trivial application I build based on the model of a static site backed by serverless functions will require some authentication solution and preferrably one that follows the same architecture. I'd also prefer to not requre an LDAP backing store because that's a lot of admin for what may be a small collection of users.

If I pick another project to start with, I'll probably create the minimum system necessary. If I choose to start with this project, I'll want to build something that can be dropped into multiple projects and configured.

### Build, Seed, and Patch
BSD is a .net library that allows the repeatable creation of databases by writing idempotent scripts to setup and roll back entities and data. I suspect there's probably a tool out there that does this already, in which case I would happily use what's already available.

### Chatterbox
Chatterbox is a project I started to play with when I was doing a lot of Slack automation. This is a purpose-built server that accepts web hooks and applies transformations to those messages before forwarding them to messaging platforms (Slack initially, but e-mail and queue servers should be pretty straightforward add-ons.)

### Consensual World platform

The premise of this is to create a platform for presenting fictional settings as canon and allowing users to add their own content into the website while distinguishing between the two sources. This may be a product with an audience of one.

### Contain Me

Contain Me is an API that allows teams to manage and launch a subset of containers keyed by user.

### The DevOps game

Possibly a Zork-like command-line game, possibly a web game - a game in which the player's job is to take a dysfunctional IT department to "ten deployments a day."

### Docker Decompose

A proof-of-concept application to take a docker-compose file, look for PLATFORM directives, and split the containers between Linux and Windows virtual machines, then connect them up using an overlay network.

### The Endorphin Engine

An actor decision engine based around an "endorphin profile" that allows for both rational and irrational actions, possibly using Akka.net.

### Fantasy Campaign hugo theme

A theme to generate websites for fantasy campaigns using the Hugo static website generator - eventually to be combined with a web front end meant to create the files used to generate the site.

### Home Game Poker

A simple server and UI for running poker games over the Internet, straightforward enough for non=-technical users.

### Jayanesia

A political Euro-style game in which the players take the roles of power centers on a South Pacific archipelago and work towards differing goals through alliances, betrayals, and other actions.

### JEFE (JavaScript Entity Framework Extensions)

An extension to Entity Framework that generates RESTful endpoints and an EF-like library of objects to be used on the front-end, written in JavaScript (or maybe WebAssembly!)

### Magnate News Aggregator

A platform that scrapes the web, looking for news sources on a given topic and tracking their updates to create aggregator sites and newsletters.

### The Nimrod Project

A site focused on helping developers coordinate and manage their career and job seeking.

### The Open Water Project

A one-stop site to aggregate the information needed by charities focused on clean and potable water to choose where to start programs and to measure their efficacy. 

### QD Backup
This is a project I started years ago to replace the clunky interface and tools I was using to backup my essential files both to a network drive and to a cloud provider. I suspect [synchthing](https://syncthing.net/) does everything I need and would want to investigate that assumption before building my own tool.

### Time Slices

A C# library for handling slices of time - different from TimeSpan in that it handle specific time spans - ie, 

```
// the first fifteen minutes of the year 2020
var slice = new TimeSlice(new DateTime(2020, 1, 1), TimeSpan.FromMinutes(15)); 
// a series of fifteen-minute slices covering the first day of the year 2020
var slices = new Series<TimeSlice>((new DateTime(2020, 1, 1), new DateTime(2020, 1, 2), TimeSpan.FromMinutes(15)); 
```

I've been kicking this one around for so long, I don't remember what project I wanted to use this for, but it probably involved histograms and time-series analysis.

### U of I

### WorldMap project
