# Journal for March 4, 2020

## DevOps

Since the last time I journalled, my job title has switched from "software developer" to "DevOps engineer," so this is technically now a devops journal - except of course that I'm still primarily a coder. Putting a leopard in the tiger enclosure doesn't give it stripes.

As I haven't been journalling, this entry should be fairly heavy with links as I'm trying to close dozens of browser tabs without losing the information.

## Notes on setting up VSTS/TFS/AZP agents

* Visual Studio Team Services == Team Foundation Server == Azure DevOps at different times in history. AZP is the West Broadway of software.
* The AZP permission model makes sense, but it's not common sense. Being a TFS admin gives you the ability to manage permissions and very little else. Because the most common authentication model for build and deployment agents is for them to run as the user who set them up (established by Personal Access Tokens,) this is probably for the best. But the documentation is littered with commands that, if run as written, obscure the permission errors and make debugging nightmarish.

## Links

### Linux

* [How do I detach a process from Terminal, entirely?](https://superuser.com/questions/178587/how-do-i-detach-a-process-from-terminal-entirely)
* [How to Find Your Local and External IP Address](https://lifehacker.com/how-to-find-your-local-and-external-ip-address-5833108)
* [How can I update to a newer version of Git using apt-get?](https://unix.stackexchange.com/questions/33617/how-can-i-update-to-a-newer-version-of-git-using-apt-get)

### Azure DevOps

* [Self-hosted Linux agents](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/devops/pipelines/agents/v2-linux?view=azure-devops)
